#summary Coding style guidelines for the project.
= Coding Style Guidelines =

== Formatting ==
In general, we use the code formatting options provided by Visual Studio 2010's "Visual C#" default configuration, with one exception:
  * Format with tabs, not spaces. 

Additionally, we use the following rules:
  * Each statement should get its own line.
  * Braces should be omitted when possible.
  * However, braces should only be omitted for complex control constructs (`if`/`else`, `try`/`catch`) if they can be omitted for all blocks in the construct.
  * Access modifiers should be omitted when possible.
  * Although this should be used judiciously, calls to functions with long or complex parameter lists should be indented using K&R style for the parentheses, and this technique should be nested as appropriate:
{{{
PerformComplexOperation(
  argument1,
  someValue ? option1 : option2,
  SomeOtherFunction(
    a,
    b,
    c
  ),
  lastValue
)
}}}

== Style ==
  * Use the .NET guidelines unless they conflict with something on this page.
  * Use `var` when possible.
  * Do not created nested types.

== Naming ==
  # Identifiers should be named in such a way as to clearly illustrate their purpose or meaning. Abbreviations should be avoided.
  # !PascalCase should be used for types, methods and properties. camelCase should be used for variables and fields.
  # All letters of an acronym should be capitalized, except with the acronym is the first word of a camelCase identifier, in which case all letters should be lowercase.
  # Boolean properties should begin with a word that suggests their boolean nature, such as "is."
  # Do not decorate field names with prefixes (for example, with `m`).
  # Do not decorate type names with prefixes (for example, with `I`).
  # In declarations, the access modifier (if applicable) should precede the static/virtual/et cetera designator. 

== Commenting ==
Comment intelligently; don't comment code that is otherwise readable and self-documenting. Instead, prefer to comment only where value would be added, such as by explaining why a particular implementation was made in favor of another that might be more obvious or standard. 

  # C-style comments should be avoided.
  # There should be a single blank line between the last line of a file header copyright and the first line of code.
  # Comments should not be placed on the same line as code statements.
  # Insert a space between the comment delimiter and the first character of the comment.
  # XML documentation comments should be added to every non-private item.
  # Prefer to avoid committing large blocks of commented-out code. That's what version control is for.